# Construction algorithm

The construction algorithm I have implemented for the contest is a basic nearest neighour + greedy drone assignment algorithm.

By this I mean that the truck route is generated by starting at the depot, and iteratively selecting next destinations based on which have the closest distance to the current position. At the end, the truck returns to the depot. This generates a trivially valid solution as it will include all customers.

Then, the truck route is modified by examining three consecutive deliveries in the truck route, $a \rightarrow b \rightarrow c$. The time spent using a drone to travel $a \rightarrow b \rightarrow c$ is calculated, plus the drone hovering time spent at the new node. This time is checked against the drone flight limit. If, in addition, assigning the drone to $b$ and having the druck now go from $a \rightarrow c$ gives us a faster "ready time" at $c$ (the time when both the truck and drone is again synchronized at $c$ and ready to move on), we include this drone assignment to $b$, and we are guaranteed both to save time and keep validity + feasibility.

When testing with only nearest neighbour, my submission to UiBOpt achieved an objective value of $34517$. With the addition of the drone covering, the objective value was $29416$. I submitted under the group name **Bergentrückung**. The benefit of this simple but greedy algorithm is that we are guaranteed to have a solution $\geq$ a pure nearest neighbour truck route. However there are a lot of weaknesses including limitations in how we can assign drones (for instance, drones will always try to meet the truck at the next possible customer instead of increasing their flight length) and significantly, the fact that the second drone is not utilized at all.

Noting these weaknesses, there is a lot of room for improvement, which I did not have time for this time as I had to submit to the Truck and Drone contest by 06.02. I would be grateful for any feedback on improving this construction heuristic. If possible, I would also appreciate feedback on whether these following other ideas I had, but did not have time to implement, are promising:

- Instead of (or in addition to) looking at routes $a \rightarrow b \rightarrow c$ and trying to assign to $b$, look at route $a \rightarrow b \rightarrow c \rightarrow d$ and try to assign one drone to $b$ + one drone to $c$, making the new truck route $a \rightarrow d$ if possible (and if this saves time)

- Generate the truck route and drone assignments at the same time by the following logic:

Let the current position be $i$.
1: Add to the truck route by nearest neighbour $k_{1}$
2: If it is possible to add the second nearest neighbour $k_{2}$ (if $i \rightarrow k_{2} \rightarrow k_{1} <$ drone limit), add this delivery to a drone.
3: Do the same for the second drone, but using the third nearest $k_{3}$ instead of $k_{2}$.
